what's going on guys my name is Matt and
while this may look like an old beat-up
GameCube on the inside is actually an
AMD APU gaming PC along with this there
are a number of cool features like
having the original power button turn on
the PC and functional front controller
ports this video is made possible by
today's sponsor Squarespace from
websites and online stores to marketing
tools and analytics Squarespace is the
all-in-one platform to build a beautiful
online presence and run your business so
like I said before I built a PC inside
of this Gamecube and while it was a lot
of work I'm really happy about the end
result
this can not only play PC games like
csgo and fortnight well but it's also
great for emulating a ton of console
games in this video I'm gonna tell you
about all the features of this system
talk about the process I went through to
mod this and I'm gonna be showing you
the system's performance in a number of
different games going into this I had a
few different goals and tentative plans
but until you actually have everything
in hand and start modding there's no way
to know for sure how everything's gonna
fit together I wanted to do a GameCube
PC because I haven't seen that many
instances of people doing this so I
thought it would be pretty unique the
first order of business was getting a
Gamecube to act as the shell of this PC
I went on eBay and purchased a broken
GameCube in the classic silver color it
wasn't in perfect condition but that was
fine because to me this just adds to the
kind of old-school / sleeper aesthetic
once in hand I needed to tear this
GameCube down to find out how its
constructed and be able to measure for
parts
I had my tools in hand and was ready to
start but then I came to the realization
that none of my dozens of security bits
would open the system lo and behold
Nintendo being Nintendo they made their
own security bit that was only ever used
on their products this is referred to as
the game bit one five dollar Amazon
order and a few days of waiting later
and I finally had the necessary tools to
crack into the Gamecube sure enough the
game it opened the system right up and
after the first four outer screws
everything else in the system just used
standard Phillips head screws pulling
the top outer shell off I was greeted by
what I would consider a very dense and
well thought-out design an ex pulled off
the front portion and easily
disconnected the
Kable then slid out the back panel as
well next I had to remove about 12
screws to continue disassembly - which
allowed me to remove the power button
and side fan assembly this side 50
millimeter fan was the only fan in the
entire system and from what I remember
this little guy was able to keep the
Gamecube pretty quiet next came off the
disk drive and beneath that was the
system mainboard after a few more screws
this came off and allowed me to take a
closer look removing the heatsink
revealed one a ridiculous amount of
thermal paste definitely gives me
flashbacks to a certain PC build video
and - after a bit of cleaning I was able
to look at the system CPU and GPU the
Gamecube actually had an IBM processor
and an ATI GPU well by today's standards
these are very weak back in the day the
Gamecube was competitive in terms of
graphics quality finally I removed the
power unit and a few more metal pieces
with that out I was left with a blank
shell to work in now I knew an ATX
motherboard or micro ATX motherboard
were gonna be out of the question for
this system but surprisingly enough even
a standard ITX board is too big to fit
in this guy because of this I need to
get the smallest form-factor motherboard
available which is actually called mini
STX
these are so small they don't even have
a 16 X PCIe slot and only support laptop
style so damn Ram because I want this to
be an AMD APU system I needed an a m4s
TX motherboard asrock does make one but
the only way to get it is to purchase an
asrock desk mini which I'll talk about
more later but getting the desk man he
not only got me the motherboard but it
also got me a power supply and a number
of other accessories opening it up and
taking the motherboard out you can see
that even the super tiny STX board will
just barely fit even though the Gamecube
looks pretty tall in reality the bottom
20 or 25% of it isn't open because of
these indents for other types of cables
and expansion I knew I wanted as much
room as possible so I decided to hollow
this section out and basically make it
an open bottom box the problem was there
was a ton of plastic to remove I decided
to start by trying the cutting tip that
came with my soldering iron I realized
how careful I need to be with this after
messing up part of the exterior
the caisson literally the first cut
luckily that was a good lesson because
there really weren't too many major
mistakes after that so I began cutting
some more and found that this worked
decently well it gave me good control
over the cut and allowed me to get into
tight spaces but it definitely left some
ugly burnt plastic edges after this I
whipped out the yield dremel to do some
of the longer more open cuts using a
combination of both I was eventually
left with this this is definitely ugly
but it gave me a nice hot out show this
added a few inches of available height
within the enclosure which in a small
form-factor build is a godsend
I then cleaned the inside up a little
with the Dremel and a low grit sanding
wheel because the bottom had so many
holes in it from the original removed
covers I need to make a bottom mounted
tray that would close off the system and
be a backplate for the motherboard to
mount to so I cut out a piece of
picture-frame backing that seemed like
it would be a good fit I then used that
as a template to mark out two pieces of
thin sheet aluminum I had on hand from
another project I made most of the first
cut with some aviation shears and bent
the piece back and forth until it
snapped off I shaved a little bit off of
the other side then test fitted in the
bottom cover I realized that while a
single piece of aluminum would be too
thin and flimsy two of them would work
fine together so I cleaned them off
spread some jb weld on one piece
sandwiched them together then applied a
comical number of spring clamps and left
it to cure overnight once done I did a
little extra trimming to make sure I had
the perfect fit to mount this to the
bottom panel I drilled a few holes in
the plastic and in the metal I
originally intended to use rivets but
quickly found out that this wouldn't
work so I ended up just screwing the two
pieces together and using a bolt cutter
to cut the excess sticking out once done
I said in the STX motherboard and marked
for motherboard standoffs then came
screwing for holes and installing for
standoffs for the motherboard to mount
to once the motherboard was mounted I
installed the CPU CPU cooler and Ram so
I could visually see what room I had for
adding other features to this system I
knew I wanted to add another fan and use
the original fan mount but to do this it
needed some heavy modifications I was
hoping to just pop out the old fan and
add a new one but after removing the old
one I found it had a non standard
mounting design that wasn't going to
I first wanted to remove any unnecessary
plastic that might get in the way of the
other components I did this with a
dremel while also removing the original
mounting pegs with this done the new fan
could fit in a place and I just attached
it with a few zip ties which worked
pretty well
part of the reason I'm using the
original fan bracket is because it also
houses the original power switch this I
wanted to reuse as the PCs power switch
I just unscrewed this from the bracket
then soldered on to jumper cables that
will plug directly into the motherboard
I also D soldered and remove the
original power input because it would
have gotten in the way I then drilled a
hole for the cables to pass through put
the power button PCB into place and
screwed it down next I lined up the fan
where it would stay making sure the
power button was easily able to be
pushed in and out and then applied some
glue set the whole fan assembly into
place and clamped it down next came the
most difficult and ambitious part of the
project which was trying to make the
original front controller ports
functional with the PC the plan was to
buy one of these generic USB GameCube
controller adapters and somehow rig it
to work with the original ports opening
up the adapter I found it consisted of
two PCBs one to accept the inputs from
the controllers and another that
interpreted those inputs and transmitted
them through USB the port spacing wasn't
the same so I couldn't just switch the
old port PCB with the new one the thing
I figured would work the best was to
make the contacts from the original
ports extend to the new board to do this
I first need to remove the ports from
the adapter and desolder all the
connections I then soldered wires to act
as extensions from each of the original
contacts I'm a soldering noob and found
using these jumper wires I had on hand
was the easiest way for me to do this I
just added some solder to each end and
soldered them into place once all this
was done I could take the other board
and solder each wire to the
corresponding contact on that board
once again this is basically making an
extension from the original ports to the
new ones the controller board that was
part of the adapter had all of the USB
contacts and looking at them you can see
only two data cables which means one of
the two USB ports is only used for power
now obviously fitting this cable in the
case and routing it to the back USB
ports wouldn't make any sense so I had
to find a way to connect it internally
luckily the motherboard I'm using
has an unpopulated usb2 header so I
first disordered the original USB cables
then I cut one end of each of these
jumper cables I added a little bit of
solder to each cable and connected each
one to the corresponding solder point on
the board I made sure to use these same
colors as original so I could easily
tell what each wire was doing with this
done the controller adapter is now able
to plug directly into the motherboard
through the USB header
so just to recap the original connectors
extend to the adapter board that used to
hold the controller ports that connects
to the controller board which then
connects to usb on the motherboard I'm
pretty happy with this solution and the
only thing I was worried about was
managing all of these cables the next
thing I wanted to do which didn't end up
happening was make a functional top
loading disk drive I bought one of these
slim laptop optical drives but wasn't
able to use it the first problem was the
fact the original opening wasn't big
enough for a standard disk secondly
while it may have been possible to fit
installing it high enough would have
interfered with stuff like the power
button the eject button and the hinge
mechanism because of all this I decided
to scratch that part with a lot more
time effort and technical know-how this
probably is possible but for now my
little GameCube PC will have to go
without one for the back panel the i/o
shield that came with the motherboard
pressure fits surprisingly well to fill
the gap between the i/o shield on the
top I cut out a small piece of sheet
aluminum this was glued in a place and
when everything is said and done I think
the back panel looks pretty decent doing
a quick test out of the show
I found the system and all of the mods
to be completely functional which was
great to see now all that was left to do
was assemble this guy and start playing
some games assembly went pretty smoothly
I condensed the front port cables as
best I could
plugged everything from the top panel in
this included the USB connectors the fan
connector and the power button then I
carefully put the two halves together oh
no it doesn't look perfect from the
outside but at a quick glance no one
would guess this Gamecube was housing a
PC so now that you've heard about the
mod let's go ahead and talk about the
parts in the system like I said before
this an APU build an APU is basically a
CPU and GPU and one what I went with is
the AMD Rison 330 200 G there's a risin
5 APU but I have this one on hand
still works great for what I was wanting
to do with this piece seed it is four
cores with four threads and has
integrated Vega eight graphics this is
perfect for stuff like csgo fortnight
and overwatch and is perfect for most
emulators the slots into the asrock
a320s TX motherboard this board is
almost comically small and it has all
the features I need for this build this
came as part of the asrock desk mini a
300 W this is a bare-bones computer that
I was able to use all the parts from
except for the case the a 300 W is
perfect for someone wanting to build a
really small APU build for $150 you're
getting a case motherboard cooler I'm
not - Wi-Fi card and a power supply all
you need to add is a CPU RAM and some
storage I can highly recommend the a 300
W and I'll have it linked below if
you're interested for RAM I won with a
16 gigabyte kit of sodam ddr4 at 3200
megahertz
this really wasn't not expensive at
around $75 and it worked perfectly at
it's rated speeds it installs just like
regular ddr4 but the DIMM slots are much
smaller for storage this board supports
two SATA drives but I just went with a
single 500 gigabyte nvme SSD this is an
old OCC drive but a link a more modern
Drive I recommend in the description the
fan I used is a 50 millimeter fractal
design fan which is actually
surprisingly quiet this acts as exhaust
and indirectly pulls air through the
other vent which actually as a built-in
dust filter all in all this isn't a
crazy powerful system but you really
can't get anything much more powerful in
this small of a package finally a quick
note on the power supply this is a 150
watt brick that came with the desk mini
and it works great for powering the
system so now that you've seen the mods
and learned about the parts let's talk
about PC game performance and emulation
but before that I want to take a minute
to talk about today's sponsor
Squarespace I've been a user of
Squarespace long before they were a
channel sponsor a while back I had a
business making and selling custom 3d
printed phone cases I use Squarespace
because they did and still do have in my
opinion the best e-commerce system
available Squarespace is an Almond
platform that handles all the confusing
aspects of creating a website beyond
just design with stuff like SEO tools
and a really robust set of analytics if
you're doing busy
us online you need a website and
Squarespace offers the best solutions
available I recently made a new website
for myself that links all my different
online presences into one location if
you want to build a beautiful website
and support the channel then head over
to Squarespace comm for a free trial and
when you're ready to launch go to
Squarespace comm slash tech bi mt to
save 10% off your first purchase of a
website or domain thanks again to
Squarespace for sponsoring this video
and now let's get back into your
regularly scheduled content so let's now
talk about gaming performance in terms
of emulation I didn't try a ton of stuff
but I didn't know exactly what to test
so if you want to see more games
emulated with this system let me know
your recommendations in the comment
section below
for GameCube I tested the Legend of
Zelda Twilight Princess this seemed to
run perfectly fine and I played it with
a GameCube controller plugged into the
front which was a pretty cool experience
I also tested super smash bros melee
this again ran great which is to be
expected because you don't need that
much horsepower to run GameCube games
for wii I tested Super Smash Bros Brawl
which is always fun to play it seems to
run fine and I played it a lot longer
than I needed to because you can never
play too much smash the last game I
tried to emulate was breath of the wild
which is a Wii U game in which is
notoriously hard to run the game didn't
crash or anything but it was not a
smooth experience with frequent lag
spikes I did take some time to try and
optimize the settings and with more
tuning I may be able to fix this but for
now this is how it's running again let
me know what games I should emulate in
the comments section below now let's
move on to pc game benchmarks moving on
a fort now at 1080p competitive settings
the system averaged around 60 FPS which
honestly was a pretty smooth and
enjoyable experience
next I tested csgo at 1080p competitive
settings the system produced FPS that
averaged in the low 100s this was a
pretty good experience an overall
gameplay seemed pretty smooth the third
game tested was Far Cry 5 to show you
this ap use performance in a triple-a
game and from the 25 FPS average it
received at 1080p low you can see that
the system isn't really meant for
triple-a gaming overall for eSports
games and games on consoles like the Wii
and GameCube this PC works great I'm
pretty
you with how this system turned out and
hope you guys liked it to let me know
what you liked about this mod and also
let me know recommendations for games to
emulate and recommendations for other
features I could add to the system so
yeah guys I think this wraps this video
up if you did find this video
entertaining then give it a thumbs up
and also consider subscribing for more
PC and tech related content in the
future and as always this is matt from
tech bye Matt signing out